# Tuesday, January 14

---

### Agenda

* Introductions. Who's here? 
* Overview of the [Syllabus](https://github.com/golanlevin/gen-ai/tree/main/syllabus)
* Logistics: Accessing Runway, MidJourney

---

### Semester Units

I'm planning 5 units (main projects). Four of them I feel certain about, but I'm very open to your suggestions for what you'd like to study.

1. Using commercial tools (Runway, MidJourney); 
2. Selfmade Systems (ComfyUI)
3. Selfmade Data (LoRA, UMAP, Colab, ComfyUI)
4. (?) 
5. Final project (Connecting to your Practice)

---

### Confessions 


**This course is an experiment; help each other through it.** A number of you took my Creative Coding course. Creative Coding is a well-understood artistic discipline; I have been teaching a class like that for 24 years, and I have even published a book on how to teach that kind of class. By comparison: I have never taught this course before — to a first approximation, nobody has. To a second approximation, nobody has taught *this* material before, to *this* population of students, with the specific tools that we will be using, in 2025. Everything is new; I'm not an expert in these tools, and almost nobody is. In some cases these tools are days or weeks old. We will go into this together, teaching each other. I need your help to design this course to meet your needs and interests. 

**This will not be a difficult course.** Some of you took my Creative Coding class. I treat that course like a bootcamp whose goal is to whip you into shape. In this course, by comparison, I want to give you time to tinker. I don’t think a high-pressure environment is the right place for students to experiment and make discoveries. This course is an opportunity to tinker with quickly evolving technology and hopefully to find our own voices. I would like this course to be a respite. 

**This course is something different.** This is not a computer science class (I am not a computer scientist); this is not a filmmaking course (I am not a filmmaker); this is not a painting or photography or creative coding course — though, depending on your interests, it could be any of those things *for you*. 

**This course will teach vocabulary — to get you from Can't to [Cant](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/cant).** There's a lot of terminology (zero-shot learning, regression, self-attention, diffusion, transformers). Part of what we will be doing is demystifying these kinds of terms. 

**This is not a course in the use of specific commercial tools.** Twenty-odd years ago, when I arrived at CMU, you could find courses in "digital imaging" which were essentially a semester spent learning Photoshop. Two decades later, I'm not here to make you into powerusers of the next Adobe; Lynda.com will help you do that with whatever tools are current when you graduate. We will spend some time with commercial tools like MidJourney and Runway because it is important that we understand the (dog)food people are currently eating, not because you need to learn those tools specifically. 

**Let's demystify this stuff.** You should learn how to make the things we see around us, to demystify them, to realize it's not that hard. But that's not enough; most of the things around you are trash.

**Everything you're learning in this class will be obsolete within one year.** Your projects will no longer compile, your prompts will no longer produce the same results, the companies will no longer exist. Get good at using these tools so you can understand the *principles* involved, not so you can put MidJourney or RunwayML on your resume. 

**This course is self-contradictory.** There will be a lot of readings, and there will be a lot of creative work: A headspinning mixture of *boo* and *yay*; of critical and practical. I use AI every day, and I make art that uses various forms of AI; at the same time, I think a lot of AI-based art is *terrible* and I'm very skeptical of where things are heading. *I will try not to be preemptively cynical*. 

**Let's connect this to our own practices.** Finding ways to make this stuff *ours* is one of the biggest challenges. Not only are we (in most cases) using algorithms made by other people, but with many systems, we're using models (i.e. *data*) made by other people. We are making art from the [pink slime](https://amp.firstwefeast.com/eat/2013/11/pink-slime-facts) of all the other images ever. 

---

### Some AI Lectures

* [More Like This, Please: Programming with Examples](https://golancourses.net/60120/daily-notes/unit-1/machine-learning-art/)
* [Seeing Like a Computer](https://golancourses.net/60120/daily-notes/unit-1/machine-learning-art-ii/)
* [The Dark Side of AI and the Arts](https://golancourses.net/60120/daily-notes/unit-1/the-dark-side-of-ai-and-the-arts/)
